3 aspects which define many different techniques for fast charging given the physical safety limitations and aging of LIBS


Sharten charging times and increase lifetime of battery cells

1) Model-free charging
	- pre-defined charging protocols. Most common is Constant Currnet (CC&CV).
	- Improved method uses CC to charge battery until terminal voltage reaches upper cutoff. Then switches to CV until current drops below pre-set threshold.
	- Multi-stage Constant currrent ->
	
Lacks phyiscal and electrochemical characteristics of battery

2) Model-based charging:
	- Capture battery dynamics to caputre charge states
	- Can be reudecd to 2 classes
	a) Reduced ordder electrochemical Models (RoEM)
		- Can capture the Internal states of LIB's (Lithium-ion batteries) such as:
			i) Legendre-Gauss-Radau LGR
			ii) Modle predictive control (MPC)
			iii) PI controller
		Difficulties in prarameter identification and state estimations. 
		- 
	b) Equivalent -circuit-maodel based
		- Extensivley used in BSM (Battery Management Systems)
		- relatively simple and easy to parameterize
		
2a) ECM can employ one of the following for use
	- EMC and LGR psuedospectral methods
	- MPC (Model predictive control)
	- Particale Swarm optimization
	
	Used for individual cells!! It is worth noting that inappropriate chargiong strategies may imcrease
	inconsistencies. Call balancing needs to be taken into account.
	
3) Charing Equalization Stratagies (CES)
	- Emply external circuit designes to deploy energy among individual cells. 
	- Performance of Equalization systems depends on battery systems, equalization circuit topology, and = algos
	
	Proposals:
	Wang et Al - Mean difference average method based on bidirectional flyback DC/DC converters
	Zhang - Inductor based = and constrol strategies in CC, CV charging and discharging processes.
	Ouyang - heirarchical cell equalization control approach based on MB cell-2-cell balancing system.
	Dong - Forumalted the problem as a path-searching problem and solved with A-star algorithm.
	
	2 challenges for Model-based optimal charging control:
	1) Charging and balancing control strategies are considered seperately in most cases.
	The coupling relationship between then is roughly neglected. Fast charging and equalization algorithms should be developed
	simultaneously, especially for scenarios with high charging currents. 
	High charging current will increase inconsistencies among in-cells and create safety contraints. 
	2) computational complexity increases with larger in-pack cells and are challenging in practical applications
	
	Proposed Deep reinforcement learning (DRL)
	- Model free / Online adapabilitya
	
	Summarization of work
	1) Unlike the existing model-based studies thast consider charging and balancing control strategies seperately.
	the fast charging and balancing control problem is formulated as a multiobjective optimization problem with the consideration
	of charging time, inconsistency, equalization, and overvoltage protection. 
	2) To obtain an adaptive soution to the formulated multiobjective optimization problem, a balancing awareness fast
	charging control framework is established using a DRL-based algorithm. Universal framework using DQN (Deep Q network)
	3) Using real-world results for show the algorithm is reliable. 
	
	Modeling, Parameterization and equalizers:
	Need to train algorithm in simulation to reduce costs, once training of the DRL algorithm is done, we can port the policies
	to real work applications. 
	
	Thus, an ECM-based battery modeling and parameterization
approach is first given out. Then, a cell-to-pack equalization
topology is introduced. Finally, an integrated model of the
battery pack is summarized.
	
	
	